Jose Cardozo
11/28/2022

https://www.pcworld.com/article/478239/how-to-remove-malware-from-your-windows-pc.html

How to remove malware from your Windows PC

Step 1: Enter Safe Mode
Before you do anything, you need to disconnect your PC from the internet, and don’t use it until you’re ready to clean your PC. This can help prevent the malware
from spreading and/or leaking your private data.

Step 2: Delete temporary files
Now that you’re in Safe Mode, you’ll want to run a virus scan. But before you do that, delete your temporary files. Doing this may speed up the virus scanning, 
free up disk space, and even get rid of some malware. To use the Disk Cleanup utility included with Windows 10 just type Disk Cleanup in the search bar or
after pressing the Start button and select the tool that appears named Disk Cleanup.

Step 3: Download malware scanners
Now you’re ready to have a malware scanner do its work—and fortunately, running a scanner is enough to remove most standard infections. 
If you already had an antivirus program active on your computer, you should use a different scanner for this malware check, since your current antivirus software
may not have detected the malware. Remember, no antivirus program can detect 100 percent of the millions of malware types and variants.
Step 4: Run a scan with Malwarebytes 
For illustrative purposes, we’ll describe how to use the Malwarebytes on-demand scanner. To get started, download it. If you disconnected from the internet for
safety reasons when you first suspected that you might be infected, reconnect to it so you can download, install, and update Malwarebytes; then disconnect from
the internet again before you start the actual scanning. If you can’t access the internet or you can’t download Malwarebytes on the infected computer,
download it on another computer, save it to a USB flash drive, and take the flash drive to the infected computer.

Step 5: Fix your web browser
Malware infections can damage Windows system files and other settings. One common malware trait is to modify your web browser’s homepage to reinfect the PC, 
display advertisements, prevent browsing, and generally annoy you.
Before launching your web browser, check your homepage and connection settings. Simply go to the setttings window of your browser to check your homepage setting.
Step 6: Recover your files if Windows is corrupt
If you can’t seem to remove the malware or if Windows isn’t working properly, you may have to reinstall Windows. But before wiping your hard drive, copy all of your files
to an external USB or flash drive.
7: Keep your PC clean
Always make sure that you have a real-time antivirus program running on your PC, and make sure this program is always up-to-date. If you don’t want to spend money on
yearly subscriptions, you can choose one of the many free programs that provide adequate protection, such as Avira Antivirus Free Edition and Bitdefender Antivirus Free
Edition. If you’d prefer a more robust AV program, we recommend Norton Security Premium—see our roundup of the best antivirus software for more information. 

The second link brought me to a page not showing the content and saying this message: "You’ve reached your limit of free articles."
