Jose Cardozo
11/23/2022

https://www.joe0.com/2017/06/11/importance-of-virtualization-in-the-amazon-ec2-cloud/
https://www.dummies.com/wp-content/uploads/Privileged-Access-Cloud-Security-For-Dummies-Thycotic-Special-Edition.pdf
https://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/28/magazine/what-google-learned-from-its-quest-to-build-the-perfect-team.html

According to Tech Target (2017), the “Virtualization is the creation of a virtual, rather than actual, version of something.” (Virtualization, 2017).

The concept of virtualization goes back to 1960s, but it was popularized by VMWare in 1999 when it was introduced to cheap Intel® hardware, which allowed anyone to
virtualize a traditional computer with all its resources. The same model eventually extended from desktops and servers to also cover the network, storage, data devices,
as well applications (through app virtualization – software encapsulation from the underlying operating system).
The Amazon IaaS cloud service model is characterized by delivering virtualized computer infrastructure in the form of a service. A good example of the virtualization
of Amazon AWS services is Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), which is essentially an IaaS service that provides virtual servers based on the Xen hypervisor.
The diagram in Figure 2 shows the architecture of EC2 host virtualization. The diagram also shows the crucial role that hypervisor in virtualization itself.
It acts as a virtual machine manager that sits on top of the host system where all of the customer virtual machines run. “The relationship of the hypervisor to the
host operating system and to the virtual machine is one of the key distinguishing characteristics of the different virtualization systems.”
(Amies, Sluiman, and Tong, 2017).
As we can see, Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) would not exist without the virtualization which is right at the core of IaaS cloud model and the EC2 implementation
at Amazon. Virtualization allows Amazon to run different types of virtual machines of various sizes on top of their hardware. It’s safe to say, 
that Amazon heavily uses virtualization through capabilities offered by Xen hypervisor and Amazon AMI. The huge bonus and advantage that comes through
service-oriented architecture to a customer of EC2 virtualized services is the ability to control virtualization through a web interface, as well as to manage 
the entire system through API. The similar IaaS services to EC2 are public IaaS offerings such as Compute Engine from Google or Microsoft’s Azure; or on-premise
products such as Eucalyptus or OpenStack.
