Jose Cardozo
11/16/2022

Windows Registry Demystified: What You Can Do With It (howtogeek.com)
What is Event Viewer and How to Use it in Windows 10 (faqforge.com)


The Windows Registry is a database where Windows and many programs store their configuration settings. You can edit the registry yourself to enable hidden features and
tweak specific options. These tweaks are often called “registry hacks.”
The Windows registry is a collection of several databases. There are system-wide registry settings that apply to all users, and each Windows user account also has
its own user-specific settings.
The registry contains folder-like “keys” and “values” inside those keys that can contain numbers, text, or other data. The registry is made up of multiple groups of keys
and values like HKEY_CURRENT_USER and HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE. These groups are called “hives” because of one of the original developers of Windows NT hated bees.
Editing the registry isn’t dangerous if you know what you’re doing. Just follow the instructions and only change the settings you’re instructed to change.
But, if you go into the registry and start haphazardly deleting or changing things, you could mess up your system’s configuration—and potentially even render
Windows unbootable.

What is the Event Viewer?

Windows 10 provides us with a feature, which helps us in viewing the detailed log of all our applications. This feature is known as Event Viewer. It gives a detailed
analysis of the working of all the applications in Windows 10. It also provides us with a list of all the error events that occurred while running any application.
It facilitates us in tracing those applications that cause problems while running. After viewing the detailed report of those problems, you can easily resolve them. 
This not only increases the efficiency of your computer system but also saves you in the future from some of the most commonly occurring issues.
There are three levels of all the events that are recorded by the Application Log i.e. Information, Error and Warning. The Information events are those events
that inform about the normal activity of an application i.e. the application is running without any issue. The Error events inform about the occurrence of an error 
while running an application. The Warning events tell about any possible issues that may occur while running the application.
In this way, you can use the Event Viewer to analyze the Event Log in order to know about all the events that occur on your computer system using Windows 10. 
The Event Log not only helps us in tracing the issues and problems that arise while performing certain activities but it also helps us in resolving the most commonly 
occurring problems by using their respective event IDs.
